>> Thompson: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 26:
THE DEATH TOLL RISES FOLLOWING
SEVERE WEATHER IN THE SOUTHERN
UNITED STATES AS FORECASTERS
WARN OF MORE BAD WEATHER TO
COME.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
LOS ANGELES TRIES TO END
HOMELESSNESS AMONG VETERANS.
>> OUR POLICY WAS VERY LAZY.
IT ADMIRABLY DEALT WITH THE
CRISIS OF PEOPLE POTENTIALLY
DYING ON OUR STREETS, BUT IT
NEVER TURNED THEIR LIVES AROUND
PERMANENTLY.
>> Thompson: AND THE LIFE AND
INFLUENCE OF WAR PHOTOGRAPHER
DICKEY CHAPELLE; NEXT, ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
MEGAN THOMPSON.
>> Thompson: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
I'M MEGAN THOMPSON, IN FOR
HARI SREENIVASAN.
OFFICIALS NOW SAY AT LEAST 17
PEOPLE ARE DEAD AFTER A STRING
OF DEADLY STORMS AND TORNADOES
RIPPED THROUGH THE SOUTH EARLIER
THIS WEEK.
LAST NIGHT, FAMILIES NEAR
BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA WERE LEFT TO
SORT THROUGH WHAT WAS LEFT OF
THEIR HOMES AFTER A TORNADO
TOUCHED DOWN ON CHRISTMAS DAY.
200 ROADS IN ALABAMA ARE
STILL CLOSED AND FLOOD WARNINGS
ARE STILL IN EFFECT.
IN TENNESSEE AND MISSISSIPPI,
RECOVERY CREWS AND UTILITY
WORKERS CONTINUED TO CLEAN UP
AFTER A TORNADO TORE A 100-MILE
PATH THROUGH THOSE STATES THIS
WEEK, DEMOLISHING DOZENS OF
HOMES AND BUILDINGS.
UNSEASONABLY WARM TEMPERATURES
SPURRED THE SEVERE WEATHER.
MORE RAINFALL IS EXPECTED
THROUGH MONDAY.
MEANWHILE, OKLAHOMA AND TEXAS
ARE PREPARING FOR WHAT THE
NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE SAYS
COULD BE A "HISTORIC BLIZZARD,"
WITH SIX TO 15 INCHES OF SNOW
FORECAST TO BEGIN FALLING THIS
EVENING.
IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA TODAY,
WILDFIRES SWEPT THROUGH 1,200
ACRES OF LAND IN VENTURA COUNTY,
WITH HUNDREDS OF FIREFIGHTERS
DEPLOYED TO CONTROL THE BLAZE.
PARTS OF MAJOR HIGHWAY 101 IN
THE STATE WERE SHUT DOWN.
NO INJURIES OR MAJOR DAMAGE HAVE
BEEN REPORTED, BUT THE FIRE HAS
YET TO BE CONTAINED.
THE BLAZE BROKE OUT LATE LAST
NIGHT.
OFFICIALS SAY HIGH WINDS MEAN
THEY'RE NOT SURE HOW LONG IT
WILL TAKE TO GET THE FLAMES
UNDER CONTROL.
THE SOLIMAR BEACH COMMUNITY OF
ABOUT 30 HOMES IS UNDER A
MANDATORY EVACUATION ORDER.
AND WILDFIRES CONTINUED TO
SMOLDER IN AUSTRALIA TODAY
AFTER MORE THAN 100 HOMES
BURNED DOWN ON CHRISTMAS--
AND OFFICIALS EXPECT MORE BLAZES
TO COME LATER THIS SEASON.
NO ONE WAS KILLED OR INJURED IN
THE FIRES THAT SCORCHED A
COASTLINE POPULAR WITH TOURISTS
IN THE AUSTRALIAN STATE OF
VICTORIA.
1,600 RESIDENTS AND TOURISTS
WERE EVACUATED.
COOLER TEMPERATURES AND RAIN ARE
EXPECTED TO KEEP THE WILDFIRES
AT BAY, THOUGH OFFICIALS SAY THE
BLAZES COULD CONTINUE BURNING
FOR WEEKS.
ACROSS NORTHERN ENGLAND TODAY,
HEAVY RAINS TRIGGERED MORE
FLOODS IN A REGION ALREADY
DRENCHED BY A SERIES OF STORMS
THIS MONTH.
RIVERS FLOWED OVER THEIR BANKS
AND FLOODWATERS COURSED THROUGH
CITY STREETS.
OFFICIALS ORDERED EVACUATIONS
AND ISSUED HUNDREDS OF STORM
WARNINGS ACROSS ENGLAND,
SCOTLAND AND WALES.
METEOROLOGISTS SAY THIS DECEMBER
HAS BEEN THE RAINIEST ON RECORD
IN THE UNITED KINGDOM.
GERMANY'S FOREIGN MINISTER TOLD
REPORTERS TODAY, EUROPE NEEDS TO
STRENGTHEN ITS BORDERS.
GERMANY HAS TAKEN IN MORE THAN A
MILLION ASYLUM SEEKERS THIS YEAR
ALONE, BUT THERE ARE CONCERNS
ISLAMIST MILITANTS MAY HAVE
JOINED THE FLOW OF MIGRANTS.
FOREIGN MINISTER FRANK WALTER
STEINMEIER WARNED AGAINST
LUMPING REFUGEES INTO THE SAME
GROUP AS TERRORISTS, BUT SAID
THE EUROPEAN UNION NEEDED TO
HAVE "MORE CONTROL AGAIN OVER
WHO IS ENTERING AND LEAVING
EUROPE."
THOSE REMARKS COME JUST DAYS
AFTER A REGIONAL OFFICIAL SAID
REFUGEES WITH FAKE SYRIAN
PASSPORTS HAVE DISAPPEARED IN
GERMANY.
>> Thompson: THIS YEAR, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE IS DOWN
ALMOST 3%, REFLECTING THE LOSS
OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN STOCK
VALUE IN U.S. COMPANIES.
AROUND THE WORLD, COMPANIES
HAVE DEFAULTED ON AT LEAST $95
BILLION WORTH OF DEBT IN THE
HIGHEST NUMBER OF BUSINESS
DEFAULTS SINCE 2009, ACCORDING
TO STANDARD AND POOR'S.
SOME COMPANIES ENCOUNTERED
SCANDALS, WHILE OTHERS SIMPLY
UNDER-PERFORMED.
FOR PERSPECTIVE INTO SOME OF THE
EVENTS OF 2015 AND WHAT MAY LIE
AHEAD IN 2016, HARI SREENIVASAN
SPOKE EARLIER WITH "FINANCIAL
TIMES" REPORTER ERIC PLATT.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THIS IS
SUCH AN ENORMOUS NUMBER.
IT'S HARD FOR PEOPLE TO GET
THEIR MINDS AROUND.
WHY ARE THESE COMPANIES
DEFAULTING?
OR WHAT'S THE PRIMARY REASON?
OR, IF THERE'S A PARTICULAR
SECTOR?
>> SURE SO ONE OF THE BIG THINGS
THAT COMPANIES WERE ABLE TO DO
OVER THE PAST FEW YEARS WAS TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF CHEAP FINANCING AND
AND CHEAP DEBT WITH THE FEDERAL
RESERVE KEEPING THE RATE AT
ZERO, IT WASN'T HARD FOR AN
ENERGY COMPANY TO GET A 3% OR 5%
LOAN, AND COMMODITY PRICES HAVE
TUMBLED.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRICE OF
OIL IS A LOT CHEAPER NOW THAN A
YEAR AGO.
>> EXACTLY, AND IT'S COPPER AND
IRON AND AFFECTING MUCH MORE
THAN THE TRADITIONAL OIL AND GAS
COMPANIES DRILLING IN THE U.S.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THEY
BORROWED FROM THEIR CREDITORS
SAYING, "LISTEN, WE'RE GOING TO
BE GOOD FOR IT.
THE PRICE OF OIL IS GOING TO GO
UP AND THE PRICE OF COMMODITIES
WILL GO UP, AND IT DIDN'T."
>> EXACTLY, WITH OIL AT ABOUT
$35 A BARREL NOW, THEY'RE
SETTLING MAKING HUGE LOSSES AND
THE QUESTION IS HOW LONG CAN
THEY KEEP GOING BEFORE THEY HAVE
TO MAKE PAYMENTS THEY CAN'T
AFFORD.
>> Sreenivasan: THE CREDITORS
ARE SAYING, "I WANT MY MONEY
BACK."
>> EXACTLY, CREDITORS ARE SAYING
"WE'RE NOT LENDING TO YOU
ANYMORE."
AND WE'RE GOING TO WANT EITHER
ASSET SALES OR TAKE CONTROL OF
THE BUSINESS, YOU'LL SEE
RESTRUCTURING, AND ALMOST EVERY
ANALYST AT THE MAJOR CREDIT
RATING AGENCIES LIKE THE
STANDARD & POORS, EXPECT THE
DEFAULT RATE TO INCREASE.
>> Sreenivasan: ARE JUNK BONDS
WORTH JUNK NOW?
>> THE LOWEST RATED COMPANIES,
RATED TRIPLE "C," THE LOWEST
TIER ON THE SCALE, AND THE
YIELDS ON THOSE COMPANIES HAVE
SHOT UP TO 18%.
IF YOU ARE HOLDING IT, YOU ARE
CLIPPING A VERY NICE COUPON.
18% A YEAR IS VERY ATTRACTIVE,
BUT YOU HAVE THAT RISK OF
DEFAULT.
AND I THINK THE THING THAT
SURPRISED INVESTORS MOST THIS
YEAR WERE THE COMPANIES RATED
INVESTMENT GRADE, RATED STRONG
"A" RATINGS AND THEY SAW THEIR
DOWNGRADE AND CUT.
>> Sreenivasan: IT'S
INTERESTING YOU MENTIONED THE
DOWNGRADE, I SAW RECENTLY "THE
BIG SHORT" ONE OF THESE HOLIDAY
MOVIES AND IS IT SIMILAR TO THE
LAST CRISIS?
HAVE WE LEARNED LESSONS?
ARE THE RATINGS AGENCIES BEING
MORE AGGRESSIVE SAYING NOT
EVERYONE IS GOING TO BE TRIPLE
"A" OR RANK OR RATING?
>> I THINK YOU HAVE SEEN MORE
CAUTION FROM THE RATING
AGENCIES.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE'VE SEEN
SOME ISSUES THAT YEAR WITH
COMPANIES LIKE VALIANT OR
VOLKSWAGEN WITH THE EMISSION
SCANDAL, PEOPLE WONDER THE LAST
TIME THIS HAPPENED IT WAS ENRON
AND WORLDCOM, AND THEY WERE
MASSIVE DISASTERS.
SO ARE THESE MORE SYSTEMIC RISKS
OR ARE THESE JUST
COMPANY-SPECIFIC ISSUES?
SO THAT'S A FEAR FOR A LOT OF
INVESTORS.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU MENTIONED
VOLKSWAGEN, THAT WAS A COMPANY
THAT PEOPLE THOUGHT WAS STABLE
MABEL, ROCK SOLID.
AND NOW YOU HAVE TO WONDER YOU
KNOW GIVEN HOW DEEP THIS
BEHAVIOR WAS, ARE THERE OTHER
SHOES TO DROP?
>> EXACTLY.
IF I'M AN AUTOMOTIVE EXECUTIVE
AT ANOTHER COMPANY AND I SEE
VOLKSWAGEN HAS THESE GREAT TEST
RESULTS AND I'M TRYING TO
COMPETE WITH THEM, AT SOME POINT
THERE'S GOT TO BE SOME TRIGGERS
LIKE MAYBE VOLKSWAGEN ISN'T
DOING THIS WITH JUST PURE
MECHANICS.
YOU SAW GERMAN REGULATORS OPEN
INVESTIGATIONS INTO OTHER DIESEL
PRODUCERS LIKE FORD AND DAIMLER.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE ARE
SCANDALS THAT HAVE WEIGHED
HEAVILY ON COMPANIES AS WELL.
WHAT ABOUT YOUNG BRANDS?
THEY HAVE HOUSEHOLD NAMES,
K.F.C., TACO BELL.
WHAT HAPPENED TO THEM?
>> THEY'VE HAD A FEW SCANDALS IN
CHINA, NOT NECESSARILY THEIR OWN
DOING, BUT AVIAN FLU AND SOME
PRODUCTS FOUND IN THEIR FOOD
THAT YOU WOULDN'T EXPECT IN A
K.F.C. MEAL.
AND WHAT THEY DECIDED TO DO WAS
SPLIT THE COMPANY INTO TWO AND
WITH SOME OF THAT CASH PAY BACK
SHAREHOLDERS.
IF I'M A BONDHOLDER I'M SUDDENLY
DEALT WITH THE LESS-PROFITABLE
SLOWER GROWTH COMPANY AND
SUDDENLY I HAVE A LOT MORE RISK
ON MY PLATE THAN WHEN I INVESTED
FOUR YEARS AGO AND I THOUGHT
THIS IS A STELLAR GROWTH STORY
IN CHINA.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THERE WERE
ALSO MOVEMENTS IN THE RETAIL
SECTOR, NEIMAN MARCUS WENT
PUBLIC THIS YEAR, BUT THERE WERE
SOME TROUBLES WITH MACY'S,
NORDSTROM, ET CETERA.
>> NEIMAN'S FILED TO GO PUBLIC
AND SUDDENLY YOU SAW NORDSTROM
SAME-STORE SALES DROP, MACY'S'
SAME-STORE SALES DROP.
AS SOON AS YOU SAW NORDSTROM
HIT, YOU SAW THE SAME CONCERNS
FLASH TO NEIMAN MARCUS BECAUSE
THEY'VE GOT A LOT OF DEBT.
AND IF SAME-STORE SALES ARE
SLOWING HOW ARE THEY GOING TO
SERVICE THAT DEBT?
HOW ARE THEY GOING TO PAY BOND
HOLDERS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ARE YOU
LOOKING FORWARD TO IN 2016?
>> ONE THING WHEN WE TALK TO
INVESTORS THEY SAY A LOT IS
PRICED INTO THE MARKET ALREADY.
YOU SEE A STEEP SELL-OFF.
PEOPLE ARE EXPECTING DEFAULTS TO
INCREASE.
MAYBE WE'RE AT THE BOTTOM.
WE'VE SEEN A FEW BONDS MEANT TO
PRICE THIS YEAR GET POSTPONED TO
NEXT YEAR BECAUSE INVESTORS
AREN'T COMING TO THE TABLE.
THAT SAID, YOU WILL SEE DEFAULTS
INCREASE.
MOST PEOPLE, LIKE THE RATING
INDUSTRIES WHAT WHEN YOU TALK TO
THEM, SAY THE IT STARTS IN 2018
AND 2019.
HUNDREDS OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
IN DEBT THAT'S DUE.
AND THE QUESTION IS CAN THESE
COMPANIES CONTINUE TO ROLL THEM
OVER?
LIKE YOU COULD REFINANCE YOUR
MORTGAGE?
OR ARE THEY GOING TO BE STUCK
PAYING THE BILLS?
AND IF THEY DON'T HAVE THE CASH
AROUND, WILL WE SEE DEFAULTS?
>> Sreenivasan: ERIC PLATT
FROM "FINANCIAL TIMES."
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Thompson: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
OUR FOCUS: THE PERSISTENT
PROBLEM OF HOMELESSNESS AMONG
AMERICA'S VETERANS.
THE GOVERNMENT ESTIMATES THAT
NEARLY 50,000 VETS ARE HOMELESS
TODAY.
THAT NUMBER REPRESENTS A MAJOR
IMPROVEMENT FROM A DECADE AGO.
BUT SOLVING THE PROBLEM
ALTOGETHER HAS PROVEN DIFFICULT,
IN PART BECAUSE VETERANS SUFFER
MENTAL HEALTH PROBLEMS AT A
HIGHER RATE THAN THOSE WHO HAVE
NOT SERVED.
THE ISSUE IS ESPECIALLY ACUTE IN
LOS ANGELES, WHICH HAS MORE
HOMELESS VETERANS THAN ANYWHERE
ELSE IN THE NATION.
TONIGHT, NEWSHOUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT JOHN CARLOS FRAY
BRINGS US THIS UPDATED REPORT ON
L.A.'S AMBITIOUS PLAN TO END
HOMELESSNESS AMONG VETERANS.
>> Reporter: 57-YEAR OLD LENDELL
SEAY PROUDLY SHOWS OFF HIS TIDY
ONE-BEDROOM APARTMENT, WHICH
OVERLOOKS THE 5 FREEWAY IN EAST
LOS ANGELES.
THE UNIT'S BATHROOM IS SO BIG,
HE KEEPS HIS BIKE IN IT, AND
THERE'S PLENTY OF ROOM FOR HIS
COLLECTION OF HATS, MANY OF
WHICH TOUT HIS MILITARY SERVICE.
>> MY PRIMARY JOB WAS IN MOTOR
T, TRANSPORTATION.
>> Reporter: SEAY SERVED IN THE
MARINES FOR MORE THAN 21 YEARS,
INCLUDING DESERT STORM IN IRAQ,
BEFORE RETIRING IN 1998.
BUT DESPITE HIS SUCCESSFUL
MILITARY CAREER, AFTER HIS
FIANCEÉ PASSED AWAY FROM A STROKE
IN 2004, SEAY FOUND HIMSELF IN A
DOWNWARD SPIRAL.
>> AND-- THAT'S WHEN THE
DRINKIN' AND EVERYTHING REALLY,
REALLY KICKED IN.
>> Reporter: FOR YOU?
>> YES.
AND I JUST-- JUST FELL APART AND
LOST EVERYTHING.
>> Reporter: SO YOU FOUND
YOURSELF WHERE?
>> I FOUND MYSELF IN THE-- IN
THE STREETS AROUND CULVER CITY
AND SANTA MONICA.
>> Reporter: FROM ONE DAY TO THE
NEXT, YOU WERE HOMELESS?
>> YES.
>> Reporter: BEFORE HE MOVED
INTO THIS APARTMENT IN OCTOBER
OF 2014, SEAY HAD BEEN HOMELESS,
OFF AND ON, FOR A DECADE.
>> EVERYTHING THAT I-- MADE
WAS-- MOSTLY SPENT DRINKIN'.
>> Reporter: FAMOUSLY SUNNY LOS
ANGELES HAS LONG BEEN KNOWN AS
THE HOMELESS CAPITAL OF AMERICA,
FROM BEACHY COMMUNITIES LIKE
SANTA MONICA AND VENICE TO SKID
ROW DOWNTOWN.
THERE ARE ABOUT 45,000 HOMELESS
PEOPLE IN L.A. COUNTY, ABOUT
4,000 OF WHOM ARE VETERANS.
THE NUMBER OF HOMELESS VETS IN
THE CITY OF L.A. HAS FALLEN BY
ABOUT ONE THIRD SINCE 2009.
AND LAST YEAR THE CITY JOINED AN
AMBITIOUS NATIONAL EFFORT
ALREADY UNDER WAY TO COMPLETELY
END VETERAN HOMELESSNESS BY THE
END OF THIS YEAR.
L.A.'S COMMITMENT COINCIDED WITH
AN EVENT IN JULY 2014 ATTENDED
BY FIRST LADY MICHELLE OBAMA,
WHO HAS CHAMPIONED VETERANS
INITIATIVES FOR THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
>> AND MAKE NO MISTAKE IT IS AN
AGGRESSIVE GOAL.
BUT WE HAVE SEEN TIME AND TIME
AGAIN THAT IF YOU BREAK THESE
NUMBERS DOWN, THEN THIS PROBLEM
BECOMES EMINENTLY SOLVABLE.
>> I DON'T THINK ANYBODY'S HAD
THE CONFIDENCE THAT WE'D EVER
BE ABLE TO MAKE A DENT IN
HOMELESSNESS.
WE'VE JUST COME TO ACCEPT THAT
WE MANAGE HOMELESSNESS, THAT WE
TRY TO MAKE IT LESS BAD, BUT WE
NEVER MAKE IT BETTER.
>> Reporter: LOS ANGELES MAYOR
ERIC GARCETTI IS A FORMER NAVY
RESERVIST HIMSELF.
HE SAYS THE CITY'S EFFORT TO END
HOMELESSNESS AMONG VETERANS IS
DIFFERENT THAN HOW THINGS USED
TO BE IN L.A.
>> OUR POLICY WAS VERY LAZY.
"I JUST DO HOUSING"; "I JUST
FEED THEM"; "I'M A FREE HEALTH
CLINIC"; AND IT-- AND IT
ADMIRABLY DEALT WITH THE
CRISIS OF PEOPLE POTENTIALLY
DYING ON OUR STREETS, BUT IT
NEVER TURNED THEIR LIVES AROUND
PERMANENTLY.
THAT'S WHAT'S CHANGED NOW.
>> Reporter: THE FIRST STEP OF
THIS NEW MODEL IS A PERMANENT
HOUSE, FUNDED MOSTLY AT
GOVERNMENT EXPENSE, WITH
SERVICES THEN ADDED AROUND THE
RESIDENT.
IT'S CALLED PERMANENT SUPPORTIVE
HOUSING.
AND THAT'S WHAT LENDELL SEAY
FOUND HIMSELF IN.
SEAY LIVES IN THIS COMPLEX THAT
HOUSES ONLY FORMERLY HOMELESS
VETERANS.
WHILE THERE IS NO FIRM PROGRAM
THAT HE HAS TO FOLLOW, HE HAS
ACCESS TO SUPPORT SERVICES,
INCLUDING ONSITE CASE MANAGERS,
MENTAL HEALTH COUNSELING,
SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT, AND
EVEN A COMMUNITY GARDEN.
OFFICIALS IN L.A. POINT TO
RESEARCH SHOWING NEARLY 90% OF
CHRONICALLY HOMELESS PEOPLE
REMAINED HOUSED AFTER FIVE YEARS
USING THIS MODEL.
FOR SEAY, WHO HAS BEEN SOBER FOR
MORE THAN TWO YEARS, IT'S MORE
THAN HE HAD HOPED FOR.
>> IT FEELS GOOD.
SOMETIMES, I WALK AROUND THE
APARTMENT AND NO-- NO TV OR
NOTHIN' ON, AND JUST SINGIN' FOR
NO REASON AT ALL.
AND THEN I CATCH MYSELF DOIN' IT
AND I START TO LAUGH AND I SAY,
"YOU MUST BE GOIN' CRAZY NOW."
BUT I'M JUST HAPPY, IT FEEL--
>> Reporter: A GOOD CRAZY.
>> IT FEELS GOOD.
>> Reporter: THERE IS NO TIME
LIMIT ON STAYING IN THE
APARTMENT.
RESIDENTS GENERALLY PAY 30% OF
THEIR INCOME IN RENT; FOR SEAY
THAT'S $470 FROM HIS PENSION.
THE REST IS SUBSIDIZED WITH A
FEDERAL VOUCHER SPECIFICALLY FOR
HOMELESS VETERANS.
SINCE 2008, NEARLY 80,000 OF
THESE VOUCHERS FOR HOMELESS VETS
HAVE BEEN AWARDED AROUND THE
COUNTRY.
>> I'LL SIGN IT, THANKS.
>> Reporter: CHRISTINE MARGIOTTA
RUNS HOME FOR GOOD FOR THE
UNITED WAY OF GREATER LOS
ANGELES, WHICH HAS COORDINATED
THE EFFORTS OF HUNDREDS OF
SERVICE PROVIDERS WORKING TO
HELP HOMELESS VETS.
SHE SAYS HOUSING FOR THE
HOMELESS-- INCLUDING VETERANS--
IS LESS EXPENSIVE THAN TRYING TO
CARE FOR PEOPLE ON THE STREET,
WHICH COSTS NEARLY $1 BILLION
ANNUALLY IN L.A.
>> BECAUSE THAT PERSON IS USING
THE EMERGENCY ROOMS FOR THEIR
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE,
THEY MAY BE CYCLING IN AND OUT
OF JAIL OR PRISON,
THEY'RE-- THEY'RE REALLY
SUFFERING, OUT ON OUR STREETS.
WHAT WE KNOW IS THAT PERMANENT,
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING IS ACTUALLY
40% CHEAPER THAN LEAVING SOMEONE
ON THE STREETS AND-- AND, IN OUR
MINDS, DOING NOTHING.
>> Reporter: BUT DESPITE THE
PROGRESS MADE, THERE'S NO
SHORTAGE OF HOMELESS PEOPLE,
INCLUDING VETERANS, ON THE
STREETS OF LOS ANGELES.
EARLY ONE MORNING THIS PAST
MARCH, WE WENT TO SKID ROW IN
DOWNTOWN L.A. WITH OUTREACH
WORKERS FROM U.S. VETS, A NON-
PROFIT VETERAN SUPPORT GROUP.
THERE WE MET BENJAMIN BARRAZA,
JR.
CAN I ASK YOU HOW LONG YOU'VE
BEEN ON THE STREETS?
>> HOW LONG?
RIGHT NOW, IT'S-- IT'S-- SINCE
I'VE BEEN-- OUT OF PRISON?
TWO YEARS AGO.
>> Reporter: YOU'VE BEEN ON THE
STREET FOR TWO YEARS?
>> YEAH.
>> Reporter: BARRAZA IS AN ARMY
VETERAN WHO SERVED FROM 1971 TO
1974.
BUT HE TOLD US THAT HE'D ALSO
SPENT TIME IN PRISON.
SINCE HE'S BEEN OUT, HE'S BEEN
STAYING IN SKID ROW SHELTERS.
HE SHOWED US THE FEW ESSENTIALS
THAT HE KEEPS WITH HIM.
>> I GOT IT ALL HERE, MAN.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS MY LITTLE KIT,
YOU KNOW.
YOU GOTTA KEEP CLEAN, SMELL
CLEAN, YOU KNOW.
>> Reporter: DESPITE QUALIFYING
FOR A FEDERAL HOUSING VOUCHER,
WHEN WE MET HIM, BARRAZA HAD NOT
BEEN ABLE TO FIND A PERMANENT
HOUSE.
FOR HIM AND MANY OTHERS ON THE
STREET, FINDING AN AFFORDABLE
APARTMENT OR PLACEMENT IN A
FACILITY WITH SERVICES, ISN'T
EASY.
>> Reporter: IS IT FRUSTRATING?
>> OH MAN, IT'S-- IT'S-- IT'S--
GIVES ME-- RIGHT NOW, I'M--
GETTIN' A HEADACHE RIGHT NOW,
JUST THINKING ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: ALL THE THINGS YOU
HAVE TO DEAL WITH JUST TO GET A
PLACE.
>> WELL, BECAUSE I CAN'T EVEN
GET AROUND.
I MEAN, I'M OBESE.
I PUT WEIGHT ON, YOU KNOW, WHEN
I WAS IN PRISON, MY MOTHER DIED
ON ME.
>> Reporter: WOW, I'M SO SORRY.
>> YOU KNOW-- I CAUGHT HEPATITIS
C.
>> Reporter: EVEN WITH THE FOCUS
OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AND
LOCAL OFFICIALS ON VETERAN
HOMELESSNESS, BARRAZA AND
THOUSANDS OF OTHER TOUGH CASES
ARE STILL ON L.A. STREETS.
I WAS ON THE STREET THIS MORNING
AND WE RAN INTO SOME VETERANS.
>> YEAH.
>> Reporter: FROM MY EYES, IT
LOOKS LIKE AN IMPOSSIBLE TASK.
>> YEAH.
>> Reporter: THESE ARE PEOPLE
WHO ARE IN DIRE STRAITS.
HOW DO YOU DEAL WITH THAT
POPULATION?
>> THE MORE YOU GO INTO THE
POPULATION, THE TOUGHER IT IS TO
ACHIEVE THAT GOAL.
BECAUSE TOWARDS THE END, IT IS
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE THE MOST
SERVICE-RESISTANT, WHO MOST
DEEPLY EXPERIENCE MENTAL HEALTH
CHALLENGES, WHEN PEOPLE HAVE
P.T.S.D., SUBSTANCE ABUSE
ISSUES, WHICH OFTEN INTERMINGLE
WITH EACH OTHER.
SOME WILL TAKE MORE TIME, BUT
I'M CONFIDENT WE CAN MAKE SURE
THAT EACH ONE OF THEM HAS A
PATHWAY OFF OUR STREETS.
>> Reporter: THE STATE OF
CONNECTICUT, AS WELL AS SOME
CITIES, INCLUDING PHOENIX, SALT
LAKE CITY, NEW ORLEANS, AND
HOUSTON, HAVE SAID THEY'VE BEEN
ABLE TO HOUSE THEIR ENTIRE
POPULATIONS OF CHRONICALLY
HOMELESS VETS WITH PERMANENT
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING.
BUT LOS ANGELES WILL NOT BE ABLE
TO REACH THAT GOAL BY THE END OF
THE YEAR.
DATA RELEASED IN MAY SHOWED THAT
THERE WAS ACTUALLY A SMALL
INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF
HOMELESS VETS IN THE CITY OF LOS
ANGELES SINCE 2013.
AND IN AUGUST, MAYOR GARCETTI
BACKED AWAY FROM HIS PLEDGE TO
HOUSE ALL HOMELESS VETS BY THE
END OF THE YEAR.
IN A STATEMENT TO PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND, THE MAYOR'S OFFICE
SAID IN PART:
IN SEPTEMBER, MAYOR GARCETTI
ALLOCATED AN ADDITIONAL $13
MILLION IN CITY FUNDS TO EXPAND
SUBSIDIES FOR HOMELESS PEOPLE.
AND IN NOVEMBER, THE L.A. CITY
COUNCIL DECLARED A "SHELTER
CRISIS," WHICH PROVIDES EXPANDED
ACCESS TO TEMPORARY SHELTERS AS
THE WEATHER GETS COLDER AND WITH
THE ONSET OF THE RAINY "EL NIÑO"
SEASON.
THE CITY COUNCIL ALSO PLEDGED TO
SPEND $100 MILLION ON HELPING
L.A.'S TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
HOMELESS, BUT IT'S NOT CLEAR
WHERE OR WHEN THE MONEY WILL BE
AVAILABLE.
>> Thompson: SEE OUR REPORT FROM
FLORIDA ON HOW THE CITY OF
SARASOTA HAS FOUND ITSELF IN THE
MIDDLE OF A DEBATE-- AND A
LAWSUIT-- OVER ITS RESPONSE TO A
GROWING HOMELESS POPULATION.
WATCH ONLINE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
WRITER AND PHOTOGRAPHER DICKEY
CHAPELLE WAS THE FIRST FEMALE
WAR CORRESPONDENT FROM THE
UNITED STATES TO BE KILLED ON
THE JOB.
SHE DIED IN VIETNAM 50 YEARS
AGO, AND NOW A NEW BOOK
CELEBRATES HER LIFE AND CAREER.
EARLIER, I SPOKE WITH THE BOOK'S
AUTHOR, JOHN GAROFOLO, ABOUT
CHAPELLE'S PIONEERING CAREER AND
HER MISSION TO EXPOSE THE
CONSEQUENCES OF WAR THROUGH
PHOTOGRAPHY.
STARTING IN THE 1940s, DICKEY
CHAPELLE WAS ONE OF AMERICA'S
FIRST FEMALE PHOTOJOURNALISTS TO
GO TO WAR ZONES FROM PANAMA TO
VIETNAM.
"LIFE" MAGAZINE, "NATIONAL
GEOGRAPHIC" AND "READER'S
DIGEST" ALL PUBLISHED HER WORK.
HER FIRST COMBAT ASSIGNMENT, FOR
THE PUBLISHER OF "WOMEN'S DAY,"
WAS DURING WORLD WAR II.
SHE COVERED THE BATTLES OF IWO
JIMA AND OKINAWA, WHERE SHE
PHOTOGRAPHED WOUNDED SOLDIERS ON
A HOSPITAL BOAT.
THIS PHOTO OF AN INJURED SOLDIER
WAITING FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT
WAS ONE OF HER MOST WIDELY
PUBLISHED.
>> DICKEY WAS DEFINITELY A
FEISTY PERSONALITY.
>> Reporter: JOHN GAROFOLO IS
THE AUTHOR OF THE NEW BOOK
"DICKEY CHAPELLE UNDER FIRE,"
THE FIRST COMPILATION OF HER
WORK.
>> AS A REPORTER, SHE FELT SHE
NEEDED TO GO WHERE THE STORY WAS
IN SPITE OF WHAT MIGHT BE THE
CONSEQUENCES TO HERSELF.
>> Reporter: IN OKINAWA,
CHAPPELLE DEFIED U.S. NAVY
ORDERS TO STAY ON THE HOSPITAL
SHIP AND FOLLOWED MARINE MEDICAL
UNITS TO THE FRONT LINES,
DOCUMENTING THE HORRORS OF ONE
OF THE WAR'S BLOODIEST BATTLES.
>> SHE REALLY HAD A MODE OF
TRYING TO DO GOOD WITH HER
PHOTOGRAPHY AND PERHAPS SAY
THAT WAR IS SOMETHING THAT WE
SHOULDN'T DO, AND SHE WAS ALSO
VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
CONSEQUENCES ON THE PEOPLE WHO
NOT ONLY FOUGHT WARS BUT ALSO
THE CIVILIANS WHO ARE VERY OFTEN
IN THE CROSS-FIRE.
>> Reporter: CHAPPELLE OFTEN
WORE PEARL EARRINGS WITH HER
COMBAT FATIGUES AS A VISUAL CUE
THAT SHE WASN'T ONE OF THE BOYS.
>> SHE REALLY WASN'T NECESSARILY
WELCOMED WITH OPEN ARMS REALLY
THROUGHOUT HER CAREER, BUT IN
SPITE OF THAT, SHE DID
PERSEVERE, AND SHE DID MANAGE TO
CONTINUE ON PAST ALL OF THE
OBJECTIONS THAT SHE MET FOR
YEARS THROUGHOUT HER CAREER.
>> Reporter: IN 1956, CHAPPELLE
WENT TO HUNGARY DURING THE
UPRISING AGAINST SOVIET RULE,
AND SHE SECRETLY PHOTOGRAPHED
REFUGEES WITH A HIDDEN CAMERA
FOR "LIFE" MAGAZINE.
SHE WAS CAUGHT, ACCUSED OF BEING
A SPY, AND HELD IN SOLITARY
CONFINEMENT IN HUNGARY FOR
ALMOST TWO MONTHS.
OVER THE NEXT DECADE SHE COVERED
CONFLICTS AND REVOLUTIONS IN
LEBANON, CUBA AND ALGERIA.
SHE WROTE ABOUT HER
UNCONVENTIONAL CAREER IN HER
AUTOBIOGRAPHY, "WHAT'S A WOMAN
DOING HERE?"
IN 1961, SHE BECAME THE FIRST
FEMALE JOURNALIST TO PARACHUTE
JUMP WITH U.S. TROOPS IN
VIETNAM.
THIS 1962 PHOTO FOR "NATIONAL
GEOGRAPHIC" WAS THE FIRST TIME A
U.S. SOLDIER WAS SHOWN ACTIVELY
ENGAGED IN COMBAT IN VIETNAM.
>> APPARENTLY, THE PENTAGON KIND
OF PUSHED BACK TO "NATIONAL
GEOGRAPHIC" AND SAID, "WE PREFER
YOU NOT RUN THAT."
BUT TO THEIR CREDIT, "NATIONAL
GEOGRAPHIC" CHOSE TO RUN IT
ANYWAY.
AND SO, THE PHOTOGRAPH ENDED UP
WINNING DICKIE THE 1963 NATIONAL
PRESS PHOTOGRAPHERS' ASSOCIATION
PHOTOGRAPH OF THE YEAR.
>> Reporter: IN 1965,
CHAPPELLE RETURNED TO VIETNAM
EMBEDDED WITH A MARINE UNIT.
WHEN A MARINE TRIGGERED A BOOBY
TRAP, SHRAPNEL STRUCK CHAPPELLE
IN THE NECK AND KILLED HER.
SHE WAS 46.
>> THERE WAS SOMETHING THAT WAS
BIGGER TO THAT STORY THAN JUST
HER GOING OUT AND GETTING IT.
IT WAS THE IMPORTANCE OF WHAT
SHE WAS TELLING.
THE STORY HAD A FUNDAMENTAL
RIGHTEOUSNESS THAT I THINK WAS
APPEALING TO HER.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Thompson: ALASKA'S BREAD AND
BUTTER IS OIL PRODUCTION, AND
FALLING PRICES HAVE PUT THE
STATE'S BUDGET DEEP IN THE RED.
TODAY'S "NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTS
THAT TO FILL THE GAP, GOVERNOR
BILL WALKER WILL PROPOSE THE
FIRST STATE INCOME TAX IN 35
YEARS.
AN INDEPENDENT, WALKER ALSO
REPORTEDLY WANTS TO SCALE BACK
THE YEARLY DIVIDEND CHECK FROM
OIL REVENUES ALASKANS HAVE BEEN
RECEIVING SINCE 1982.
ACCORDING TO ALASKA OFFICIALS,
CRUDE OIL PRICES HAVE PLUNGED
FROM OVER $95 A BARREL AT THE
BEGINNING OF THIS YEAR TO
BARELY $35 A BARREL THIS WEEK.
THE IRAQI ARMY ANNOUNCED
PROGRESS TODAY IN THE EFFORT TO
RETAKE THE CENTRAL CITY OF
RAMADI.
A SPOKESMAN SAID IRAQI FORCES
MADE ADVANCES IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT HOUSES THE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT OFFICES
OVERNIGHT, BUT WERE DELAYED BY
BOOBY TRAPS AND EXPLOSIVES.
RAMADI WAS TAKEN BY ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS IN MAY.
IT IS THE CAPITAL OF IRAQ'S
MOSTLY SUNNI ANBAR PROVINCE.
FOR THE SECOND TIME IN BARELY A
MONTH, A MASSIVE LANDSLIDE IN
MYANMAR'S JADE-MINING REGION HAS
TAKEN A HEAVY TOLL.
POLICE DID NOT CONFIRM
FATALITIES, BUT LOCAL WORKERS
AND OFFICIALS SAY THAT AT LEAST
30 PEOPLE ARE MISSING AND
FEARED DEAD UNDER THE RUBBLE.
A LANDSLIDE IN THE SAME AREA
LAST MONTH KILLED MORE THAN 100.
THE REGION IN NORTHERN MYANMAR
PRODUCES SOME OF THE WORLD'S
HIGHEST-QUALITY JADE.
IN CHINA'S SOUTHERN CITY OF
SHENZHEN, COMMUNIST OFFICIALS
AND RESIDENTS STOOD IN SILENT
TRIBUTE TODAY TO THE VICTIMS OF
A LANDSLIDE THERE ON DECEMBER
20.
AND OFFICIALS MADE A RARE PUBLIC
APOLOGY FOR THE DISASTER THAT
HAS LEFT MORE THAN 70 PEOPLE
STILL MISSING UNDER UNTOLD TONS
OF CONSTRUCTION WASTE.
THE CITY'S COMMUNIST LEADERS
APOLOGIZED TO ALL AFFECTED
FAMILY MEMBERS, AND TO "THE
WHOLE SOCIETY."
THE SUDDEN LANDSLIDE BURIED OR
DAMAGED MORE THAN 30 BUILDINGS.
>> Thompson: AND FINALLY, IN A
SETBACK FOR REBELS FIGHTING
SYRIAN PRESIDENT BASHAR
AL-ASSAD, THE COMMANDER OF A
LEADING OPPOSITION GROUP WAS
KILLED IN AN AIR STRIKE
YESTERDAY, ABOUT A MONTH BEFORE
PLANNED PEACE TALKS.
ZAHRAN ALLOUSH WAS THE LEADER OF
JAYSH AL-ISLAM, OR THE ARMY OF
ISLAM, ONE OF THE MOST POWERFUL
REBEL GROUPS FIGHTING IN THE
SUBURBS OF DAMASCUS.
THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT RELEASED A
VIDEO CLAIMING TO BE FOOTAGE OF
THE AIRSTRIKES THAT KILLED
ALLOUSH AND ANNOUNCED HIS DEATH
ON STATE TV.
SOME HAVE CRITICIZED ALLOUSH'S
KILLING, NOTING THAT JAYSH
AL-ISLAM HAD AGREED TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE UPCOMING
PEACE TALKS AND HELP KEEP
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS FROM
ENTERING DAMASCUS.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M MEGAN THOMPSON.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.